simulator/README.md, before:

# HD Simulation Software Backend

A config-driven training backend for Zammad labs.

This service generates realistic ticket traffic, listens for analyst responses, simulates customer follow-up behavior, grades closed tickets, and produces daily/weekly performance summaries.

## Release Track

- **V1 (current / stable):** [https://github.com/acesarhernandez/HD-Simulation-Software](https://github.com/acesarhernandez/HD-Simulation-Software) (`main`)
  - Primary target: homelab deployment
  - Default response engine: `rule_based`
- **V2 (in development):** [https://github.com/acesarhernandez/HD-Simulation-Software/tree/v2-llm-dev](https://github.com/acesarhernandez/HD-Simulation-Software/tree/v2-llm-dev)
  - Primary target: same backend with optional remote LLM endpoint
  - Planned response engine mode: `ollama`
  - If the LLM is unavailable, the simulator can fall back to rule-based replies

## What LLM Changes In V2

V1 already covers queue generation, ticket injection, poller loops, hints, scoring, and reports without any LLM.  
V2 keeps that foundation and adds optional LLM behavior where it improves realism:

- **Natural customer dialog:** less canned follow-up phrasing, better continuity across replies.
- **Conversation continuity:** recent ticket interactions can be included in the LLM prompt for better follow-up consistency.
- **Adaptive hints/coaching:** hint text can adapt to your actual troubleshooting steps.
- **Richer closure feedback:** explanation quality can improve while deterministic score math stays intact.
- **Professionalism review:** analyst tone can be checked and called out in post-close coaching.
- **Scenario expression variety:** same underlying truth, but more variation in ticket wording and user tone.
- **Optional wake control:** the UI can expose a Wake-on-LAN action for the LLM host PC when configured.

## V2 Design Rules

The `v2` branch uses the LLM as an enhancement layer, not as the source of truth.

- Ticket creation remains driven by the existing structured scenario engine.
- Hidden truth remains authored, deterministic, and technically accurate.
- The LLM does not invent arbitrary root causes, fixes, or grading rules.
- Deterministic grading remains the authoritative score.
- If the LLM is offline or returns weak output, the simulator falls back safely to `v1`-style behavior.

This keeps the simulator realistic without letting AI drift break scoring, troubleshooting validity, or scenario integrity.

## Planned V2 Enhancements

- Optional LLM rewrite of opening ticket language for more natural variation without changing the underlying scenario.
- Expanded structured scenario dimensions (device, location, urgency, business context, user tone) so ticket streams feel less repetitive before any freeform AI variation is applied.
- Optional LLM coaching notes attached to deterministic grading results.
- Optional LLM documentation critique so post-close feedback can assess note quality and communication.
- Optional professionalism critique so post-close feedback can flag hostile or clearly inappropriate analyst replies.
- Optional mentor/escalation chat panel in the UI to simulate consulting a senior tech or sysadmin.
- Hint responses that stay grounded in the structured hint bank, but can be reworded by the LLM into more natural coaching language.

## What v1 Includes

- Session profiles (`normal_day`, `busy_day`, `outage_day`, `tier1_focus`, `tier2_focus`, `sysadmin_focus`, `manual_only`) with clock-in style operation.
- Dynamic ticket volume (`min/max tickets per window`, `window cadence`, `session duration`).
- Tier routing control (`tier1`, `tier2`, `sysadmin`) via weighted distribution.
- Incident injection support (for example, simulated network outage spikes).
- Hidden scenario truth per ticket (root cause, expected checks, valid fixes).
- Poller loop that watches ticket updates and posts simulated customer replies.
- Poller ignores internal Zammad notes so simulated customers only answer public agent replies.
- Persona-based customer identities (HR/Finance/etc.) that first reuse existing Zammad department users, then auto-create customer + organization records if needed.
- Hint system with configurable score penalties.
- SLA-aware grading model and performance reports.
- Knowledge article links at scenario level (backend-ready for KB workflows).
- New simulator-created tickets are sent to Zammad as `new` and unassigned.
- Dashboard includes day-profile definitions and manual ticket generation by filters.
- Dashboard includes mass clock-out, light/dark/auto theme toggle, and readable hint/report summaries with raw JSON.
- Trickle delivery mode enabled by default so tickets arrive gradually instead of all at once.
- Optional v2 response engine integration point for remote Ollama.

## Architecture

The backend is intentionally split into stable modules so you can swap components without rewriting the whole stack.

- `api/`: HTTP endpoints for session control, hints, and reports.
- `services/`: scheduler, poller, generation, grading, and reporting logic.
- `adapters/`: Zammad gateway and dry-run gateway.
- `templates/`: profiles, personas, and scenarios in YAML.
- `repositories/`: SQLite persistence for sessions, tickets, interactions, reports.

Core runtime flow:

1. Clock in to a profile.
2. Scheduler creates tickets at each configured window.
3. Poller checks for new agent replies.
4. Simulator posts customer follow-up responses.
5. Ticket close triggers grading.
6. Daily/weekly summary reports are generated on demand.

## Project Layout

```text
simulator/
  src/helpdesk_sim/
    api/
    adapters/
    domain/
    repositories/
    services/
    templates/
  tests/
  Dockerfile
  docker-compose.example.yml
  pyproject.toml
```

## Requirements

- Python 3.11+
- Network reachability from this service to Zammad
- API token for a Zammad admin/service account

## Quick Start (Local)

From the `simulator` directory:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e '.[dev]'
uvicorn helpdesk_sim.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8079
```

Open API docs:

- [http://localhost:8079/docs](http://localhost:8079/docs)
- [http://localhost:8079/ui](http://localhost:8079/ui) (Dashboard)
- [http://localhost:8079/ui/guide](http://localhost:8079/ui/guide) (Plain-language guide)
- [http://localhost:8079/v1/runtime/response-engine](http://localhost:8079/v1/runtime/response-engine) (Response engine status)
- `POST /v1/runtime/wake-llm-host` (Optional Wake-on-LAN trigger for the LLM PC)
- `POST /v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/coach` (Post-close coaching note grounded in deterministic grading data)
- `POST /v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/mentor` (Internal mentor / escalation guidance for the selected ticket)

Dashboard highlights:

- Day profile cards that explain cadence, volume, tier mix, and business-hours behavior.
- Manual ticket generation controls by session, tier, ticket type, department, persona, or scenario.
- Ticket detail panel showing operational metadata, recent interactions, and linked knowledge articles.
- Ticket detail actions for close/delete (single and bulk) plus KB draft generation for closed tickets.
- Ticket detail includes a `Coach` action that sends a closed ticket to the coaching endpoint and shows the result in the same panel.
- Ticket delete actions now attempt linked Zammad ticket deletion first, then remove simulator records.
- Hint requests directly in UI with penalty visibility plus plain-English summaries.
- LLM runtime status now reports whether the configured LLM host appears reachable right now, not just whether Wake-on-LAN is configured.
- Wake-on-LAN works best when the simulator process sending the packet is on the same LAN as the target PC. A remote Mac instance will usually not be able to send a directed broadcast to your home LAN.
- A dedicated `Mentor Console` lets you ask for higher-tier guidance on a selected ticket without affecting the simulated end-user conversation.
- Report cards in plain English plus raw JSON for debugging/auditing.
- Theme selector: `Auto` (follows system), `Light`, or `Dark`.
- `Clock Out All` button to end every active shift in one action.
- Session detail controls to close/delete individual tickets and bulk close/delete for cleanup.

## Quick Start (Homelab Docker)

```bash
cp docker-compose.example.yml docker-compose.yml
# edit docker-compose.yml values

docker compose up -d --build
```

## Easy Configuration Path

If you want the fastest, lowest-friction setup:

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env`
2. Fill in your Zammad values first
3. Start in `rule_based` mode
4. Only add Ollama/Wake-on-LAN settings after `v1` behavior is stable

Recommended `v1` baseline:

```env
SIM_USE_DRY_RUN=false
SIM_RESPONSE_ENGINE=rule_based
SIM_LLM_HOST_WOL_ENABLED=false
```

Recommended `v2` optional LLM baseline:

```env
SIM_USE_DRY_RUN=false
SIM_RESPONSE_ENGINE=ollama
SIM_OLLAMA_FALLBACK_TO_RULE_BASED=true
```

Windows LLM host setup guide:

- [../docs/windows-llm-host-setup.md](../docs/windows-llm-host-setup.md)

## Configuration

Environment variables use the `SIM_` prefix.

- `SIM_ZAMMAD_URL`: Zammad base URL.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_TOKEN`: API token.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_GROUP_TIER1`: group name for Tier 1 ticket creation.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_GROUP_TIER2`: group name for Tier 2 ticket creation.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_GROUP_SYSADMIN`: group name for SysAdmin ticket creation.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_CUSTOMER_FALLBACK_EMAIL`: optional existing customer email used only if persona customer lookup/create fails.
- `SIM_USE_DRY_RUN`: `true` for local testing without Zammad.
- `SIM_RESPONSE_ENGINE`: `rule_based` (v1 default) or `ollama` (v2 option).
- `SIM_OLLAMA_URL`: remote Ollama endpoint for v2.
- `SIM_OLLAMA_MODEL`: model name for the remote LLM.
- `SIM_OLLAMA_FALLBACK_TO_RULE_BASED`: if `true`, Ollama failures fall back to rule-based replies.
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_LABEL`: UI label for the optional LLM host machine.
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_WOL_ENABLED`: enables the Wake-on-LAN button and backend endpoint.
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_MAC`: target MAC address for the LLM host (use the physical Ethernet adapter MAC if the PC wakes over wired LAN).
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_WOL_BROADCAST_IP`: broadcast IP used to send the magic packet.
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_WOL_PORT`: UDP port used for Wake-on-LAN (commonly `7` or `9`).
- `SIM_DB_PATH`: SQLite file path.
- `SIM_POLL_INTERVAL_SECONDS`: how often poller checks for updates.
- `SIM_SCHEDULER_INTERVAL_SECONDS`: how often scheduler checks for due windows.

If your token cannot create/search users, set `SIM_ZAMMAD_CUSTOMER_FALLBACK_EMAIL` to an existing customer user (for example `sim.test@bmm.local`) so ticket creation can still proceed.

Wake-on-LAN routing note:

- The simulator can only send a normal Wake-on-LAN broadcast if the machine running the simulator has a route to the target LAN broadcast address.
- If you run `v2` locally on a remote Mac and point Wake-on-LAN at a home LAN broadcast (for example `192.168.86.255`), macOS may return `No route to host`.
- In that remote-use case, the reliable option is to run the wake action from your homelab instance on the home network, or expose a small wake relay on the homelab.

## Clock-In Workflow

1. List available profiles:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/profiles
```

2. Start session (`busy_day` example):

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/sessions/clock-in \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"profile_name":"busy_day"}'
```

3. Optional manual tick triggers:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/scheduler/run-once
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/poller/run-once
```

4. Review session state:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/sessions/<session_id>
```

5. Clock out all active sessions:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/sessions/clock-out-all
```

Manual single/batch generation by filters:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/tickets/generate \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"session_id":"<session_id>","count":1,"tier":"tier1","ticket_type":"vpn_issue","department":"Sales"}'
```

## Hint Mode

Hints are controlled per profile and scored with penalties.

Request a hint:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/hints \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"ticket_id":"<ticket_id>","level":"nudge"}'
```

Levels:

- `nudge`
- `guided_step`
- `strong_hint`

Penalty values are configured in `templates/profiles.yaml`.

Hint responses include both raw fields and an `english_summary` string.

## Reports

Daily report:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/reports/daily
```

Weekly report:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/reports/weekly
```

Report payload includes:

- closed ticket count
- average score
- average first response time
- average resolution time
- SLA miss rate
- top missed troubleshooting checks

Report responses include both raw metrics and an `english_summary` string.

Linked knowledge articles for a ticket:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/knowledge-articles
```

Post-close coaching note for a completed ticket:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/coach
```

Mentor / escalation guidance for an active or closed ticket:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/mentor \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message":"What would you check next before I escalate this?"}'
```

## Scenario Authoring

Scenarios live in `src/helpdesk_sim/templates/scenarios.yaml`.

Each scenario defines:

- customer-visible problem statement
- hidden root cause
- expected analyst checks
- acceptable resolution keywords
- clue map for customer follow-up responses
- hint bank per hint level
- linked knowledge article IDs

This structure lets you keep deterministic scoring while still generating varied ticket streams.

## Extending to v2 (Ollama on Windows)

You can keep this backend on homelab and only point `SIM_OLLAMA_URL` to your Windows Ollama endpoint over Tailscale.

No topology change is required for core simulator services. The only additional dependency is network/API access from homelab to the Ollama host.

## Security Notes

- Use a dedicated service token in Zammad.
- Restrict network access to simulator API endpoints.
- Keep `.env` out of version control.
- Rotate API tokens periodically.

## Development

```bash
make dev
make test
make lint
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: add opening ticket rewrites and pc status badge (2026-03-01 10:43 PST)

simulator/README.md, after:

# HD Simulation Software Backend

A config-driven training backend for Zammad labs.

This service generates realistic ticket traffic, listens for analyst responses, simulates customer follow-up behavior, grades closed tickets, and produces daily/weekly performance summaries.

## Release Track

- **V1 (current / stable):** [https://github.com/acesarhernandez/HD-Simulation-Software](https://github.com/acesarhernandez/HD-Simulation-Software) (`main`)
  - Primary target: homelab deployment
  - Default response engine: `rule_based`
- **V2 (in development):** [https://github.com/acesarhernandez/HD-Simulation-Software/tree/v2-llm-dev](https://github.com/acesarhernandez/HD-Simulation-Software/tree/v2-llm-dev)
  - Primary target: same backend with optional remote LLM endpoint
  - Planned response engine mode: `ollama`
  - If the LLM is unavailable, the simulator can fall back to rule-based replies

## What LLM Changes In V2

V1 already covers queue generation, ticket injection, poller loops, hints, scoring, and reports without any LLM.  
V2 keeps that foundation and adds optional LLM behavior where it improves realism:

- **Natural customer dialog:** less canned follow-up phrasing, better continuity across replies.
- **Opening ticket variation:** the initial ticket body can be rewritten by the LLM while the same scenario and hidden truth remain in force.
- **Conversation continuity:** recent ticket interactions can be included in the LLM prompt for better follow-up consistency.
- **Adaptive hints/coaching:** hint text can adapt to your actual troubleshooting steps.
- **Richer closure feedback:** explanation quality can improve while deterministic score math stays intact.
- **Professionalism review:** analyst tone can be checked and called out in post-close coaching.
- **Scenario expression variety:** same underlying truth, but more variation in ticket wording and user tone.
- **Optional wake control:** the UI can expose a Wake-on-LAN action for the LLM host PC when configured.

## V2 Design Rules

The `v2` branch uses the LLM as an enhancement layer, not as the source of truth.

- Ticket creation remains driven by the existing structured scenario engine.
- Hidden truth remains authored, deterministic, and technically accurate.
- The LLM does not invent arbitrary root causes, fixes, or grading rules.
- Deterministic grading remains the authoritative score.
- If the LLM is offline or returns weak output, the simulator falls back safely to `v1`-style behavior.

This keeps the simulator realistic without letting AI drift break scoring, troubleshooting validity, or scenario integrity.

## Planned V2 Enhancements

- Optional LLM rewrite of opening ticket language for more natural variation without changing the underlying scenario.
- Expanded structured scenario dimensions (device, location, urgency, business context, user tone) so ticket streams feel less repetitive before any freeform AI variation is applied.
- Optional LLM coaching notes attached to deterministic grading results.
- Optional LLM documentation critique so post-close feedback can assess note quality and communication.
- Optional professionalism critique so post-close feedback can flag hostile or clearly inappropriate analyst replies.
- Optional mentor/escalation chat panel in the UI to simulate consulting a senior tech or sysadmin.
- Hint responses that stay grounded in the structured hint bank, but can be reworded by the LLM into more natural coaching language.

## What v1 Includes

- Session profiles (`normal_day`, `busy_day`, `outage_day`, `tier1_focus`, `tier2_focus`, `sysadmin_focus`, `manual_only`) with clock-in style operation.
- Dynamic ticket volume (`min/max tickets per window`, `window cadence`, `session duration`).
- Tier routing control (`tier1`, `tier2`, `sysadmin`) via weighted distribution.
- Incident injection support (for example, simulated network outage spikes).
- Hidden scenario truth per ticket (root cause, expected checks, valid fixes).
- Poller loop that watches ticket updates and posts simulated customer replies.
- Poller ignores internal Zammad notes so simulated customers only answer public agent replies.
- Persona-based customer identities (HR/Finance/etc.) that first reuse existing Zammad department users, then auto-create customer + organization records if needed.
- Hint system with configurable score penalties.
- SLA-aware grading model and performance reports.
- Knowledge article links at scenario level (backend-ready for KB workflows).
- New simulator-created tickets are sent to Zammad as `new` and unassigned.
- Dashboard includes day-profile definitions and manual ticket generation by filters.
- Dashboard includes mass clock-out, light/dark/auto theme toggle, and readable hint/report summaries with raw JSON.
- Trickle delivery mode enabled by default so tickets arrive gradually instead of all at once.
- Optional v2 response engine integration point for remote Ollama.
- Optional opening-message rewrite in `v2` so initial ticket bodies can vary without changing scenario truth.

## Architecture

The backend is intentionally split into stable modules so you can swap components without rewriting the whole stack.

- `api/`: HTTP endpoints for session control, hints, and reports.
- `services/`: scheduler, poller, generation, grading, and reporting logic.
- `adapters/`: Zammad gateway and dry-run gateway.
- `templates/`: profiles, personas, and scenarios in YAML.
- `repositories/`: SQLite persistence for sessions, tickets, interactions, reports.

Core runtime flow:

1. Clock in to a profile.
2. Scheduler creates tickets at each configured window.
3. Poller checks for new agent replies.
4. Simulator posts customer follow-up responses.
5. Ticket close triggers grading.
6. Daily/weekly summary reports are generated on demand.

## Project Layout

```text
simulator/
  src/helpdesk_sim/
    api/
    adapters/
    domain/
    repositories/
    services/
    templates/
  tests/
  Dockerfile
  docker-compose.example.yml
  pyproject.toml
```

## Requirements

- Python 3.11+
- Network reachability from this service to Zammad
- API token for a Zammad admin/service account

## Quick Start (Local)

From the `simulator` directory:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e '.[dev]'
uvicorn helpdesk_sim.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8079
```

Open API docs:

- [http://localhost:8079/docs](http://localhost:8079/docs)
- [http://localhost:8079/ui](http://localhost:8079/ui) (Dashboard)
- [http://localhost:8079/ui/guide](http://localhost:8079/ui/guide) (Plain-language guide)
- [http://localhost:8079/v1/runtime/response-engine](http://localhost:8079/v1/runtime/response-engine) (Response engine status)
- `POST /v1/runtime/wake-llm-host` (Optional Wake-on-LAN trigger for the LLM PC)
- `POST /v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/coach` (Post-close coaching note grounded in deterministic grading data)
- `POST /v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/mentor` (Internal mentor / escalation guidance for the selected ticket)

Dashboard highlights:

- Day profile cards that explain cadence, volume, tier mix, and business-hours behavior.
- Manual ticket generation controls by session, tier, ticket type, department, persona, or scenario.
- Ticket detail panel showing operational metadata, recent interactions, and linked knowledge articles.
- Ticket detail actions for close/delete (single and bulk) plus KB draft generation for closed tickets.
- Ticket detail includes a `Coach` action that sends a closed ticket to the coaching endpoint and shows the result in the same panel.
- Ticket delete actions now attempt linked Zammad ticket deletion first, then remove simulator records.
- Hint requests directly in UI with penalty visibility plus plain-English summaries.
- LLM runtime status now reports whether the configured LLM host appears reachable right now, not just whether Wake-on-LAN is configured.
- LLM runtime includes a dedicated PC online/offline badge based on LLM host reachability.
- Wake-on-LAN works best when the simulator process sending the packet is on the same LAN as the target PC. A remote Mac instance will usually not be able to send a directed broadcast to your home LAN.
- A dedicated `Mentor Console` lets you ask for higher-tier guidance on a selected ticket without affecting the simulated end-user conversation.
- Report cards in plain English plus raw JSON for debugging/auditing.
- Theme selector: `Auto` (follows system), `Light`, or `Dark`.
- `Clock Out All` button to end every active shift in one action.
- Session detail controls to close/delete individual tickets and bulk close/delete for cleanup.

## Quick Start (Homelab Docker)

```bash
cp docker-compose.example.yml docker-compose.yml
# edit docker-compose.yml values

docker compose up -d --build
```

## Easy Configuration Path

If you want the fastest, lowest-friction setup:

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env`
2. Fill in your Zammad values first
3. Start in `rule_based` mode
4. Only add Ollama/Wake-on-LAN settings after `v1` behavior is stable

Recommended `v1` baseline:

```env
SIM_USE_DRY_RUN=false
SIM_RESPONSE_ENGINE=rule_based
SIM_LLM_HOST_WOL_ENABLED=false
```

Recommended `v2` optional LLM baseline:

```env
SIM_USE_DRY_RUN=false
SIM_RESPONSE_ENGINE=ollama
SIM_OLLAMA_FALLBACK_TO_RULE_BASED=true
```

Windows LLM host setup guide:

- [../docs/windows-llm-host-setup.md](../docs/windows-llm-host-setup.md)

## Configuration

Environment variables use the `SIM_` prefix.

- `SIM_ZAMMAD_URL`: Zammad base URL.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_TOKEN`: API token.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_GROUP_TIER1`: group name for Tier 1 ticket creation.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_GROUP_TIER2`: group name for Tier 2 ticket creation.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_GROUP_SYSADMIN`: group name for SysAdmin ticket creation.
- `SIM_ZAMMAD_CUSTOMER_FALLBACK_EMAIL`: optional existing customer email used only if persona customer lookup/create fails.
- `SIM_USE_DRY_RUN`: `true` for local testing without Zammad.
- `SIM_RESPONSE_ENGINE`: `rule_based` (v1 default) or `ollama` (v2 option).
- `SIM_OLLAMA_URL`: remote Ollama endpoint for v2.
- `SIM_OLLAMA_MODEL`: model name for the remote LLM.
- `SIM_OLLAMA_FALLBACK_TO_RULE_BASED`: if `true`, Ollama failures fall back to rule-based replies.
- `SIM_OLLAMA_REWRITE_OPENING_TICKETS`: if `true`, `v2` can rewrite the opening ticket body with the LLM while keeping the same hidden truth.
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_LABEL`: UI label for the optional LLM host machine.
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_WOL_ENABLED`: enables the Wake-on-LAN button and backend endpoint.
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_MAC`: target MAC address for the LLM host (use the physical Ethernet adapter MAC if the PC wakes over wired LAN).
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_WOL_BROADCAST_IP`: broadcast IP used to send the magic packet.
- `SIM_LLM_HOST_WOL_PORT`: UDP port used for Wake-on-LAN (commonly `7` or `9`).
- `SIM_DB_PATH`: SQLite file path.
- `SIM_POLL_INTERVAL_SECONDS`: how often poller checks for updates.
- `SIM_SCHEDULER_INTERVAL_SECONDS`: how often scheduler checks for due windows.

If your token cannot create/search users, set `SIM_ZAMMAD_CUSTOMER_FALLBACK_EMAIL` to an existing customer user (for example `sim.test@bmm.local`) so ticket creation can still proceed.

Wake-on-LAN routing note:

- The simulator can only send a normal Wake-on-LAN broadcast if the machine running the simulator has a route to the target LAN broadcast address.
- If you run `v2` locally on a remote Mac and point Wake-on-LAN at a home LAN broadcast (for example `192.168.86.255`), macOS may return `No route to host`.
- In that remote-use case, the reliable option is to run the wake action from your homelab instance on the home network, or expose a small wake relay on the homelab.

## Clock-In Workflow

1. List available profiles:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/profiles
```

2. Start session (`busy_day` example):

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/sessions/clock-in \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"profile_name":"busy_day"}'
```

3. Optional manual tick triggers:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/scheduler/run-once
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/poller/run-once
```

4. Review session state:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/sessions/<session_id>
```

5. Clock out all active sessions:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/sessions/clock-out-all
```

Manual single/batch generation by filters:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/tickets/generate \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"session_id":"<session_id>","count":1,"tier":"tier1","ticket_type":"vpn_issue","department":"Sales"}'
```

## Hint Mode

Hints are controlled per profile and scored with penalties.

Request a hint:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/hints \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"ticket_id":"<ticket_id>","level":"nudge"}'
```

Levels:

- `nudge`
- `guided_step`
- `strong_hint`

Penalty values are configured in `templates/profiles.yaml`.

Hint responses include both raw fields and an `english_summary` string.

## Reports

Daily report:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/reports/daily
```

Weekly report:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/reports/weekly
```

Report payload includes:

- closed ticket count
- average score
- average first response time
- average resolution time
- SLA miss rate
- top missed troubleshooting checks

Report responses include both raw metrics and an `english_summary` string.

Linked knowledge articles for a ticket:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8079/v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/knowledge-articles
```

Post-close coaching note for a completed ticket:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/coach
```

Mentor / escalation guidance for an active or closed ticket:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8079/v1/tickets/<ticket_id>/mentor \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message":"What would you check next before I escalate this?"}'
```

## Scenario Authoring

Scenarios live in `src/helpdesk_sim/templates/scenarios.yaml`.

Each scenario defines:

- customer-visible problem statement
- hidden root cause
- expected analyst checks
- acceptable resolution keywords
- clue map for customer follow-up responses
- hint bank per hint level
- linked knowledge article IDs

This structure lets you keep deterministic scoring while still generating varied ticket streams.

## Extending to v2 (Ollama on Windows)

You can keep this backend on homelab and only point `SIM_OLLAMA_URL` to your Windows Ollama endpoint over Tailscale.

No topology change is required for core simulator services. The only additional dependency is network/API access from homelab to the Ollama host.

## Security Notes

- Use a dedicated service token in Zammad.
- Restrict network access to simulator API endpoints.
- Keep `.env` out of version control.
- Rotate API tokens periodically.

## Development

```bash
make dev
make test
make lint
```

## License

MIT
